---
title: "Robust RFID-Based Multi-Object Identification and Tracking with Visual Aids"
authors:
  - "Junjie Yin"
  - "Sicong Liao"
  - "me"
  - "Xuan Ding"
  - "Zheng Yang"
  - "Zuwei Yin"
author_notes:
  - "Corresponding author"
  - ""
  - ""
  - ""
  - ""
  - ""
date: "2021-07-06T00:00:00Z"
publication_types: ["paper-conference"]
publication:
  name: "IEEE International Conference on Sensing, Communication, and Networking"
  short_name: "IEEE SECON"
  pages: "1-9"
  location: "Rome, Italy"
peer_reviewed: true
featured: false
tags:
  - "CCF-B"
links:
  - type: pdf
    url: "/papers/2021-robust-rfid-based-multi-object-identification-and-tracking-with-visual-aids.pdf"
hugoblox:
  ids:
    doi: "10.1109/SECON52354.2021.9491612"
---

## Abstract

Obtaining fine-grained spatial information is of practical importance in RFID-based applications. However,
high-precision positioning remains a challenging task in commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) RFID systems.
Inspired by progress in the computer vision (CV) field, researchers propose to combine CV with RFID systems
and turn the positioning problem into a matching problem. Promising though it seems, current methods fuse CV
and RFID through converting traces of tagged objects extracted from videos by CV into phase sequences for
matching, which is a dimension-reduced procedure causing loss of spatial resolution. Consequently, they fail
in more harsh conditions such as small tag intervals and low reading rates of tags. To address the limitation,
we propose TagFocus, a more robust RFID-enabled system for fine-grained multi-object identification and
tracking with visual aids. The key observation of TagFocus is that traces generated by different methods shall
be compatible if they are acquired from one identical object. Leveraging this observation, an attention-based
sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) model is trained to generate a simulated trace for each candidate tag-object
pair. And the trace of the right pair shall best match the observed trace directly extracted by CV. A
prototype of TagFocus is implemented and extensively assessed in lab environments. Experimental results show
that our system maintains a matching accuracy of over 89% in harsh conditions, outperforming state-of-the-art
schemes by 25%.

## Citation

J. Yin, S. Liao, C. Duan, X. Ding, Z. Yang, and Z.Yin, “Robust RFID-Based Multi-Object Identification and Tracking with Visual Aids,” in Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Sensing, Communication, and Networking(SECON), 2021, pp. 1-9.

## 中文引用（GB/T 7714）

Yin J, Liao S, Duan C, et al. Robust RFID-Based Multi-Object Identification and Tracking with Visual Aids[C]//Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Sensing, Communication, and Networking(SECON). 2021: 1-9.
